docs-website/src/pages/docs/typescript-orm-reference/index.md, before:

---
title: TypeScript ORM reference
description: The TypeScript ORM allows you to access data sources fluently from TypeScript
---

The TypeScript ORM allows you to read, write, and subscribe operations on the data sources configured in your WunderGraph application (the Virtual Graph) using TypeScript.

The ORM is available in the request context of your operation handlers, webhooks, and hook server via the `graph` reference.

## Setup

{% callout type="warning" %}
Our ORM is currently alpha so expect bugs and API changes. Please report bugs and feature requests on [GitHub](https://github.com/wundergraph/wundergraph/issues/new/choose) 🙏
{% /callout %}

Since the ORM is experimental you must explicitly opt-in to said functionality. Set `experimental.orm` to `true` in your `wundergraph.config.ts`.

```typescript
import { configureWunderGraphApplication } from '@wundergraph/sdk';

configureWunderGraphApplication({
  // ...
  experimental: {
    // The ORM will now be available to your operation handlers
    // on the `graph` reference!
    orm: true,
  },
});
```

## Operations

The ORM supports read, write, and subscribe operations on the data sources configured in your WunderGraph application.

### Reads

Read operations are specified via the `query` method. For example,

```typescript {% filename="getUser.ts" %}
import { createOperation } from '../../generated/wundergraph.factory';

export default createOperation.query({
  handler: async ({ graph }) => {
    return await graph.from('foo').query('user').where({ id: 'bar' }).exec();
  },
});

// => { id: 'bar' }
```

### Writes

Write operations are specified via the `mutate` method. For example,

```typescript {% filename="createUser.ts" %}
import { createOperation } from '../../generated/wundergraph.factory';

export default createOperation.mutation({
  handler: async ({ graph }) => {
    return await graph
      .from('foo')
      .mutate('createUser')
      .where({ name: { first: 'John', last: 'Cena' } })
      .exec();
  },
});

// => { id: 'abc', name: { first: 'John', last: 'Cena' }, createdAt: '2023-04-16T09:34:37.192Z' }
```

### Subscriptions

Stream operations are specified via the `subscribe` method. For example,

```typescript {% filename="liveUser.ts" %}
import { createOperation, z } from '../../generated/wundergraph.factory';

export default createOperation.subscription({
  input: z.object({
    id: z.string(),
  }),
  handler: async function* ({ input }) {
    const userUpdates = await graph.from('foo').subscribe('userUpdated').where({ id: input.id }).exec();

    for (const user of userUpdates) {
      yield user;
      // => { id: 'abc', name: { first: 'John', last: 'Cena' }, createdAt: '2023-04-16T09:34:37.192Z' }
    }
  },
});
```

## Nested and Filtered Selections

As a convenience the ORM will select all scalar fields on an object type. In-order-to retrieve relations (or other arbitrarily nested fields on the object) and/or filter unwanted fields, one can provide a list of property paths to the `select` method. For example,

```typescript
const result = await graph
  .from('people')
  .query('user')
  .select('id', 'firstName', 'friends.firstName', 'friends.lastName')
  .where({ id: 'abc', fiends: { limit: 1 } })
  .exec();

// => { id: 'abc', firstName: 'John', friends: [{ firstName: 'Hulk', lastName: 'Hogan' }] }
```

## Conditional Types

An important feature of the ORM is the support for interacting with types that are variable at runtime. As our virtual graph utilizes GraphQL to define it's semantics, the ORM encodes this behavior similarly.

### Union Types

A [union](https://spec.graphql.org/October2021/#sec-Unions) defines a set of possible types that the returned object may represent. The ORM currently **requires specifying the fields you would like returned for each possible type**. Select type-specific fields using the `on(fields: ...Array<string>)` method, for example:

```typescript
const someType = await graph
  .query('unionType')
  .on('A', (t) => t.select('a'))
  .on('B', (t) => t.select('b'))
  .exec();

// utilize the `__typename` meta field to distinguish types at runtime
if (someType.__typename === 'A') {
  console.log(someType.a);
} else {
  console.log(someType.b);
}
```

### Interface Types

An [interface](https://spec.graphql.org/October2021/#sec-Interfaces) defines a common set of properties that multiple objects can adhere to. For example, a `Query.node(id: ID!)` API (under the `foo` namespace) could be accessed like so:

```ts
// given `interface Node { id: iD! }`

const interfaceObject = await graph.from('foo').query('node').exec();

// { __typename: "SomeImplementation", id: "abc" }
```

**Note**: The ORM does not currently auto-select interface fields (i.e each field must be selected on each type). This will be improved soon!

Commit message:

feat: add withHeaders method to ORM (#1025)
* feat: add withHeaders method to ORM

* chore: add documentation

* chore: add e2e test

* chore: get headers from clientRequest

* chore: fix tests

* fix: should err on null response

docs-website/src/pages/docs/typescript-orm-reference/index.md, after:

---
title: TypeScript ORM reference
description: The TypeScript ORM allows you to access data sources fluently from TypeScript
---

The TypeScript ORM allows you to read, write, and subscribe operations on the data sources configured in your WunderGraph application (the Virtual Graph) using TypeScript.

The ORM is available in the request context of your operation handlers, webhooks, and hook server via the `graph` reference.

## Setup

{% callout type="warning" %}
Our ORM is currently alpha so expect bugs and API changes. Please report bugs and feature requests on [GitHub](https://github.com/wundergraph/wundergraph/issues/new/choose) 🙏
{% /callout %}

Since the ORM is experimental you must explicitly opt-in to said functionality. Set `experimental.orm` to `true` in your `wundergraph.config.ts`.

```typescript
import { configureWunderGraphApplication } from '@wundergraph/sdk';

configureWunderGraphApplication({
  // ...
  experimental: {
    // The ORM will now be available to your operation handlers
    // on the `graph` reference!
    orm: true,
  },
});
```

## Operations

The ORM supports read, write, and subscribe operations on the data sources configured in your WunderGraph application.

### Reads

Read operations are specified via the `query` method. For example,

```typescript {% filename="getUser.ts" %}
import { createOperation } from '../../generated/wundergraph.factory';

export default createOperation.query({
  handler: async ({ graph }) => {
    return await graph.from('foo').query('user').where({ id: 'bar' }).exec();
  },
});

// => { id: 'bar' }
```

### Writes

Write operations are specified via the `mutate` method. For example,

```typescript {% filename="createUser.ts" %}
import { createOperation } from '../../generated/wundergraph.factory';

export default createOperation.mutation({
  handler: async ({ graph }) => {
    return await graph
      .from('foo')
      .mutate('createUser')
      .where({ name: { first: 'John', last: 'Cena' } })
      .exec();
  },
});

// => { id: 'abc', name: { first: 'John', last: 'Cena' }, createdAt: '2023-04-16T09:34:37.192Z' }
```

### Subscriptions

Stream operations are specified via the `subscribe` method. For example,

```typescript {% filename="liveUser.ts" %}
import { createOperation, z } from '../../generated/wundergraph.factory';

export default createOperation.subscription({
  input: z.object({
    id: z.string(),
  }),
  handler: async function* ({ input }) {
    const userUpdates = await graph.from('foo').subscribe('userUpdated').where({ id: input.id }).exec();

    for (const user of userUpdates) {
      yield user;
      // => { id: 'abc', name: { first: 'John', last: 'Cena' }, createdAt: '2023-04-16T09:34:37.192Z' }
    }
  },
});
```

## Nested and Filtered Selections

As a convenience the ORM will select all scalar fields on an object type. In-order-to retrieve relations (or other arbitrarily nested fields on the object) and/or filter unwanted fields, one can provide a list of property paths to the `select` method. For example,

```typescript
const result = await graph
  .from('people')
  .query('user')
  .select('id', 'firstName', 'friends.firstName', 'friends.lastName')
  .where({ id: 'abc', fiends: { limit: 1 } })
  .exec();

// => { id: 'abc', firstName: 'John', friends: [{ firstName: 'Hulk', lastName: 'Hogan' }] }
```

## Conditional Types

An important feature of the ORM is the support for interacting with types that are variable at runtime. As our virtual graph utilizes GraphQL to define it's semantics, the ORM encodes this behavior similarly.

### Union Types

A [union](https://spec.graphql.org/October2021/#sec-Unions) defines a set of possible types that the returned object may represent. The ORM currently **requires specifying the fields you would like returned for each possible type**. Select type-specific fields using the `on(fields: ...Array<string>)` method, for example:

```typescript
const someType = await graph
  .query('unionType')
  .on('A', (t) => t.select('a'))
  .on('B', (t) => t.select('b'))
  .exec();

// utilize the `__typename` meta field to distinguish types at runtime
if (someType.__typename === 'A') {
  console.log(someType.a);
} else {
  console.log(someType.b);
}
```

### Add headers

You can add headers to your ORM requests by using the `withHeaders` method. For example:

```typescript
const result = await graph
  .withHeaders({
    Authorization: 'Bearer token',
  })
  .from('people')
  .query('user')
  .select('id', 'firstName', 'friends.firstName', 'friends.lastName')
  .where({ id: 'abc', fiends: { limit: 1 } })
  .exec();
```

### Interface Types

An [interface](https://spec.graphql.org/October2021/#sec-Interfaces) defines a common set of properties that multiple objects can adhere to. For example, a `Query.node(id: ID!)` API (under the `foo` namespace) could be accessed like so:

```ts
// given `interface Node { id: iD! }`

const interfaceObject = await graph.from('foo').query('node').exec();

// { __typename: "SomeImplementation", id: "abc" }
```

**Note**: The ORM does not currently auto-select interface fields (i.e each field must be selected on each type). This will be improved soon!
