docs-website/src/pages/docs/features/local-development.md, before:

---
title: Local Development
pageTitle: WunderGraph - Features - Local Development
description:
---

Modern technologies like Serverless are easy to scale in the cloud but make it hard to develop on your local machine.

Emulators are simply not capable of delivering the same look and feel as if you were running your application in the could.

As we've stated in various places, we're using WunderGraph to build WunderGraph.
One of our prime directives is that we, ourselves, want the best possible developer experience, even on localhost.

For that reason, we've built WunderGraph in a way that enables developers to easily build WunderGraph applications on their local machine.

Once you have a WunderGraph application initialized you're able to start your local dev environment with one single command:

```shell
wunderctl init
npm install && npm start
```

That's all it takes to run your own WunderGraph dev environment.
It's not lacking any features,
as we're always developing for local first and then for the cloud.

Commit message:

refactor: replace wunderctl init with npx create-wundergraph-app (#337)
* refactor: replace wunderctl init with npx create-wundergraph-app

* refactor: modify getting started page

* refactor: replace old getting started command with npx create-wundergraph-app

* chore: remove templates

* chore: remove copy templates to cli script

* fix: update Makefile

* fix: modify script command

* chore: remove init command from wunderctl

* feat: add create-wundergraph-app to navigation and tags

* feat: add docs for create-wundergraph-app

* fix: replace wunderctl init with create-wundergraph-app

* fix: modify the error message

Co-authored-by: Alberto García Hierro <alberto@garciahierro.com>

docs-website/src/pages/docs/features/local-development.md, after:

---
title: Local Development
pageTitle: WunderGraph - Features - Local Development
description:
---

Modern technologies like Serverless are easy to scale in the cloud but make it hard to develop on your local machine.

Emulators are simply not capable of delivering the same look and feel as if you were running your application in the could.

As we've stated in various places, we're using WunderGraph to build WunderGraph.
One of our prime directives is that we, ourselves, want the best possible developer experience, even on localhost.

For that reason, we've built WunderGraph in a way that enables developers to easily build WunderGraph applications on their local machine.

Once you have a WunderGraph application initialized you're able to start your local dev environment with the commands:

```shell
npx create-wundergraph-app <project-name> -E simple
cd <project-name>
npm install && npm start
```

That's all it takes to run your own WunderGraph dev environment.
It's not lacking any features,
as we're always developing for local first and then for the cloud.
