docs-website/src/pages/docs/tutorials/your-first-wundergraph-application.md, before:

---
title: Your First WunderGraph Application
pageTitle: WunderGraph - Your First WunderGraph Application
description:
---

In this tutorial we're going to guide you through a a very simple
WunderGraph application, and we'll make it more complex later.

WunderGraph applications are just Node packages, so if you're already familiar with
it you'll feel right at home. Otherwise, we'll help you with the basics.

Our very first project will build a Virtual Graph over a GraphQL which provides information
about countries.

This tutorial assumes some familiarity with GraphQL. If you're not familiar with it, you can
take a look at their [introduction](https://graphql.org/learn/).

## Create and initialize your new application

For this tutorial, we'll use the WunderGraph `application` template,
to save us some typing.

```shell
# Init a new project with the application template
npx -y @wundergraph/wunderctl init -o countries
```

This will create our new application in the `countries` directory. Once it finishes,
`cd` into it and run `npm i` (`i` is a shorthand for `install`) to download the
WunderGraph SDK.

```shell
cd countries && npm i
```

WunderGraph comes with its own code generation and development server, which we will
use extensively in these tutorials. At this point, we can run the development server
to make sure our project is correctly initialized.

```shell
$ npm start
...
2022-10-17T13:56:56+01:00	info	Starting WunderNode	...
2022-10-17T13:56:56+01:00	debug	Initial Build successful ...
```

To check if our project is working, we can use `curl` to send a request:

```shell
$ curl http://localhost:9991/app/main/operations/Continents
```

If our project is running correctly, we should see the following response:

```json
{
  "data": {
    "countries_continents": [
      { "name": "Africa", "code": "AF" },
      { "name": "Antarctica", "code": "AN" },
      { "name": "Asia", "code": "AS" },
      { "name": "Europe", "code": "EU" },
      { "name": "North America", "code": "NA" },
      { "name": "Oceania", "code": "OC" },
      { "name": "South America", "code": "SA" }
    ]
  }
}
```

## Application structure

So now that our example is up and running, we can start exploring the structure
of a typical WunderGraph application.

On the top level, you can see we have `package.json` and `tsconfig.json`. These are
the package manifest and the TypeScript compiler configuration, respectively, both exist
in virtually any Node package using TypeScript.

Besides them there's a `.wundergraph` directory, which is where our WunderGraph application
lives. Let's see what each entry in this directory represents

- `generated` contains data and source code automatically generated by WunderGraph. You should
  not store these in your version control system.
- `cache` contains cached data generated by WunderGraph, usually derived from fetching remote
  resources. Although in the general case you probably don't want to store these files, it is
  possible to use them to speed up CI runs. That's why we put them in a different directory.
- `wundergraph.config.ts` is the main entry point of your WunderGraph application. Here we define
  our virtual graph as well as wiring up our server and operations configurations.
- `wundergraph.operations.ts` configures our operations. Things like authentication or caching
  policies are stored in this file.
- `wundergraph.server.ts` contains our server configuration. Here we can expose additional endpoints
  or define hooks that attach to server events.
- `operations` is a directory containing `.graphql` files, where each file represents an operation that
  our virtual graph can expose.

## Going minimal

Now we're going to reduce our app to the bare minimum and explain what each step does. Edit your
`wundergraph.config.ts` so it looks like this:

```typescript
import {
  Application,
  configureWunderGraphApplication,
  introspect,
} from '@wundergraph/sdk'

const continentsAPI = introspect.graphql({
  // Namespace inside our virtual graph
  apiNamespace: 'the_continents',
  // URL of the data source
  url: 'https://countries.trevorblades.com/',
})

const myApplication = new Application({
  name: 'app',
  apis: [continentsAPI],
})

configureWunderGraphApplication({
  application: myApplication,
})
```

You will notice that our WunderGraph node now starts producing some errors:

```
{"level":"error","message":"error normalizing operation: external: field: countries_continents not defined on type...
```

Can you spot what happened? We'll help you: we changed the namespace that our API data source
maps to, notice `apiNamespace` used to be `countries`, but we changed it to `the_continents`.
API namespaces are used to wire our virtual graph together. Since we changed the namespace, the
operations we had defined in `.wundergraph/operations` are now invalid. Let's remove both
`.wundergraph/operations/Countries.graphql` and `.wundergraph/operations/Continents.graphl`
and write a new operation.

## Defining an operation

As we previously mentioned, operations are always stored in `.wundergraph/operations`. Each file
with a `.graphql` extension represents an operation that our server exposes. Note that each
operation is named after its file name, the query doesn't need to have an explicit name.

Since our query must end up mapping to our data sources, before writing our first operation
we should open `https://countries.trevorblades.com/` and visually inspecting
its schema.

We can see the root query has a `continents` field, and each `Continent` consists of a `name`,
`code` as well as a list with its `countries`. For now, we're only going to include their codes.

Create `.wundergraph/operations/Continents.graphl` with the following contents:

```graphql
query {
  # Notice how the query takes the <our-api-namespace>_<data-source-namespace>
  the_continents_continents {
    code
  }
}
```

Once we save `Continents.graphl` WunderGraph will automatically reload our application and
we can test that it is once again returning results, but now it only includes the continent
code. Also, the namespace for the top level is now `the_continents`.

```shell
# Operation name "Continents" matches the filename of the operation
# filename "Continents.graphql" without extension
$ curl http://localhost:9991/app/main/operations/Continents

{"data":{"the_continents_continents":[{"code":"AF"},{"code":"AN"},{"code":"AS"},{"code":"EU"},{"code":"NA"},{"code":"OC"},{"code":"SA"}]}}
```

## Filtering

Our virtual graph always returns the whole list of continents. Since there are only 7, it's a problem.
But what if we returning something else which had thousands or millions of entries? We would need
some means to retrieve only the results that we care about. With WunderGraph, this only requires
2 new lines of code. Change `Continents.graphql` to:

```graphql
# Our filter type takes the form <api-namespace>_<remote-type>
# ContinentFilterInput is the filter type as declared by
# the data source.
query Continents($filter: the_continents_ContinentFilterInput) {
  # Pass the filter to the remote API
  the_continents_continents(filter: $filter) {
    code
  }
}
```

To test this, we need to send a request with the filter. To do so, we use the `wg_variables` parameter:

```shell
$ curl --get --data-urlencode 'wg_variables={"filter":{"code":{"eq":"AF"}}}' http://localhost:9991/app/main/operations/Continents

{"data":{"the_continents_continents":[{"code":"AF"}]}
```

## Exercises

- Expand `Continents.graphql` to return the countrie codes inside each continent

Commit message:

docs: change namespace in first tutorial to world
the_continents caused some stuttering when referring to the Continent
type in the data source

docs-website/src/pages/docs/tutorials/your-first-wundergraph-application.md, after:

---
title: Your First WunderGraph Application
pageTitle: WunderGraph - Your First WunderGraph Application
description:
---

In this tutorial we're going to guide you through a a very simple
WunderGraph application, and we'll make it more complex later.

WunderGraph applications are just Node packages, so if you're already familiar with
it you'll feel right at home. Otherwise, we'll help you with the basics.

Our very first project will build a Virtual Graph over a GraphQL which provides information
about countries.

This tutorial assumes some familiarity with GraphQL. If you're not familiar with it, you can
take a look at their [introduction](https://graphql.org/learn/).

## Create and initialize your new application

For this tutorial, we'll use the WunderGraph `application` template,
to save us some typing.

```shell
# Init a new project with the application template
npx -y @wundergraph/wunderctl init -o world
```

This will create our new application in the `world` directory. Once it finishes,
`cd` into it and run `npm i` (`i` is a shorthand for `install`) to download the
WunderGraph SDK.

```shell
cd world && npm i
```

WunderGraph comes with its own code generation and development server, which we will
use extensively in these tutorials. At this point, we can run the development server
to make sure our project is correctly initialized.

```shell
$ npm start
...
2022-10-17T13:56:56+01:00	info	Starting WunderNode	...
2022-10-17T13:56:56+01:00	debug	Initial Build successful ...
```

To check if our project is working, we can use `curl` to send a request:

```shell
$ curl http://localhost:9991/app/main/operations/Continents
```

If our project is running correctly, we should see the following response:

```json
{
  "data": {
    "countries_continents": [
      { "name": "Africa", "code": "AF" },
      { "name": "Antarctica", "code": "AN" },
      { "name": "Asia", "code": "AS" },
      { "name": "Europe", "code": "EU" },
      { "name": "North America", "code": "NA" },
      { "name": "Oceania", "code": "OC" },
      { "name": "South America", "code": "SA" }
    ]
  }
}
```

## Application structure

So now that our example is up and running, we can start exploring the structure
of a typical WunderGraph application.

On the top level, you can see we have `package.json` and `tsconfig.json`. These are
the package manifest and the TypeScript compiler configuration, respectively, both exist
in virtually any Node package using TypeScript.

Besides them there's a `.wundergraph` directory, which is where our WunderGraph application
lives. Let's see what each entry in this directory represents

- `generated` contains data and source code automatically generated by WunderGraph. You should
  not store these in your version control system.
- `cache` contains cached data generated by WunderGraph, usually derived from fetching remote
  resources. Although in the general case you probably don't want to store these files, it is
  possible to use them to speed up CI runs. That's why we put them in a different directory.
- `wundergraph.config.ts` is the main entry point of your WunderGraph application. Here we define
  our virtual graph as well as wiring up our server and operations configurations.
- `wundergraph.operations.ts` configures our operations. Things like authentication or caching
  policies are stored in this file.
- `wundergraph.server.ts` contains our server configuration. Here we can expose additional endpoints
  or define hooks that attach to server events.
- `operations` is a directory containing `.graphql` files, where each file represents an operation that
  our virtual graph can expose.

## Going minimal

Now we're going to reduce our app to the bare minimum and explain what each step does. Edit your
`wundergraph.config.ts` so it looks like this:

```typescript
import {
  Application,
  configureWunderGraphApplication,
  introspect,
} from '@wundergraph/sdk'

const world = introspect.graphql({
  // Namespace inside our virtual graph
  apiNamespace: 'world',
  // URL of the data source
  url: 'https://countries.trevorblades.com/',
})

const myApplication = new Application({
  name: 'app',
  apis: [world],
})

configureWunderGraphApplication({
  application: myApplication,
})
```

You will notice that our WunderGraph node now starts producing some errors:

```
{"level":"error","message":"error normalizing operation: external: field: countries_continents not defined on type...
```

Can you spot what happened? We'll help you: we changed the namespace that our API data source
maps to, notice `apiNamespace` used to be `countries`, but we changed it to `world`.
API namespaces are used to wire our virtual graph together. Since we changed the namespace, the
operations we had defined in `.wundergraph/operations` are now invalid. Let's remove both
`.wundergraph/operations/Countries.graphql` and `.wundergraph/operations/Continents.graphl`
and write a new operation.

## Defining an operation

As we previously mentioned, operations are always stored in `.wundergraph/operations`. Each file
with a `.graphql` extension represents an operation that our server exposes. Note that each
operation is named after its file name, the query doesn't need to have an explicit name.

Since our query must end up mapping to our data sources, before writing our first operation
we should open `https://countries.trevorblades.com/` and visually inspect
its schema.

We can see the root query has a `continents` field, and each `Continent` consists of a `name`,
`code` as well as a list with its `countries`. For now, we're only going to include their codes.

Create `.wundergraph/operations/Continents.graphl` with the following contents:

```graphql
query {
  # Notice how the query takes the <our-api-namespace>_<data-source-namespace>
  world_continents {
    code
  }
}
```

Once we save `Continents.graphl` WunderGraph will automatically reload our application and
we can test that it is once again returning results, but now it only includes the continent
code. Also, the namespace for the top level is now `world`.

```shell
# Operation name "Continents" matches the filename of the operation
# filename "Continents.graphql" without extension
$ curl http://localhost:9991/app/main/operations/Continents

{"data":{"world_continents":[{"code":"AF"},{"code":"AN"},{"code":"AS"},{"code":"EU"},{"code":"NA"},{"code":"OC"},{"code":"SA"}]}}
```

## Filtering

Our virtual graph always returns the whole list of continents. Since there are only 7, it's a problem.
But what if we returning something else which had thousands or millions of entries? We would need
some means to retrieve only the results that we care about. With WunderGraph, this only requires
2 new lines of code. Change `Continents.graphql` to:

```graphql
# Our filter type takes the form <api-namespace>_<remote-type>
# ContinentFilterInput is the filter type as declared by
# the data source.
query Continents($filter: world_ContinentFilterInput) {
  # Pass the filter to the remote API
  world_continents(filter: $filter) {
    code
  }
}
```

To test this, we need to send a request with the filter. To do so, we use the `wg_variables` parameter:

```shell
$ curl --get --data-urlencode 'wg_variables={"filter":{"code":{"eq":"AF"}}}' http://localhost:9991/app/main/operations/Continents

{"data":{"world_continents":[{"code":"AF"}]}
```

## Exercises

- Expand `Continents.graphql` to return the country codes inside each continent
