docs-website/src/pages/docs/architecture/index.md, before:

---
title: Architecture Overview of WunderGraph
pageTitle: WunderGraph - Architecture - Overview
description:
hideTableOfContents: true
---

This section will cover the architecture of WunderGraph.

## [Architecture Diagram](/docs/architecture/architecture-diagram)

Going through the Architecture Diagram is a good way to understand the different components of WunderGraph.

## [WunderGraph Explained in one Sequence Diagram](/docs/architecture/wundergraph-explained-in-one-sequence-diagram)

In addition to the Architecture Diagram,
this section will help you understand how WunderGraph handles requests,
as well as how the different components of WunderGraph work together.

## [WunderGraph RPC Protocol explained](/docs/architecture/wundergraph-rpc-protocol-explained)

If you're looking to understand WunderGraph better,
or want to create an additional client for WunderGraph,
reading about the RPC Protocol is a good way to start.

## [WunderGraph Conventions](/docs/architecture/wundergraph-conventions)

Thare are a few conventions that you should follow when using WunderGraph.
Make sure to have a look to avoid common mistakes.

## [Manage API Dependencies explicitly](/docs/architecture/manage-api-dependencies-explicitly)

One core differentiator between WunderGraph and other tools is that WunderGraph allows you to manage your API dependencies explicitly.
What this means and how this impacts your development workflows is explained in this section.

Commit message:

chore(docs-website): update overviews

docs-website/src/pages/docs/architecture/index.md, after:

---
title: Architecture Overview of WunderGraph
pageTitle: WunderGraph - Architecture - Overview
description:
hideTableOfContents: true
---

This section will cover the architecture of WunderGraph.

{% quick-links %}

{% quick-link title="Architecture Diagram" icon="core" href="/docs/architecture/architecture-diagram" description="Going through the Architecture Diagram is a good way to understand the different components of WunderGraph." /%}

{% quick-link title="WunderGraph Explained in one Sequence Diagram" icon="core" href="/docs/architecture/wundergraph-explained-in-one-sequence-diagram" description="In addition to the Architecture Diagram, this section will help you understand how WunderGraph handles requests, as well as how the different components of WunderGraph work together." /%}

{% quick-link title="WunderGraph RPC Protocol explained" icon="core" href="/docs/architecture/wundergraph-rpc-protocol-explained" description="If you're looking to understand WunderGraph better, or want to create an additional client for WunderGraph, reading about the RPC Protocol is a good way to start." /%}

{% quick-link title="WunderGraph Conventions" icon="core" href="/docs/architecture/wundergraph-conventions" description="There are a few conventions that you should follow when using WunderGraph. Make sure to have a look to avoid common mistakes." /%}

{% quick-link title="Manage API Dependencies explicitly" icon="core" href="/docs/architecture/manage-api-dependencies-explicitly" description="One core differentiator between WunderGraph and other tools is that WunderGraph allows you to manage your API dependencies explicitly. What this means and how this impacts your development workflows is explained in this section." /%}

{% /quick-links %}
