docs-website/src/pages/docs/wundergraph-config-ts-reference/configure-introspection.md, before:

---
title: Configure Introspection
pageTitle: WunderGraph - Configure Introspection
description:
---

When running `wunderctl up`,
WunderGraph automatically sets up a number of file watchers to automatically re-generate the configuration and re-start the WunderGraph Server when changes are made to the configuration.

This approach has two downsides.
First, we can only detect changes to the file system.
So, if you're changing the schema of your database,
you'd have to manually re-start the process,
which would be inconvenient.

Second, whenever you change one of the configuration files,
e.g. you modify a GraphQL Operation,
`wunderctl` would have to re-introspect all data sources.
This works fine for a small number of data sources,
but doesn't really scale.

## Introspection Caching

That's why we've introduced introspection caching.

{% callout type="warning" %}
By default, every data source is introspected exactly once.
The result is cached in the `.wundergraph/cache/introspection` directory.
{% /callout %}

When caching is enabled, if a cache entry is found for a data source,
it's always used instead of introspecting the data source again. Cache is
optional and might be turned off globally using the `--no-cache` flag.

## Clearing the Cache

Cache can be emptied when `wunderctl` starts by using the `--clear-cache`
flag. Additionally, `wunderctl up` will automatically clear the cache
when it starts up. To clear the cache again, just restart it.

## Pregenerating the Cache

For CI environments that cannot perform network requests, it might be
useful to generate the cache contents and make the tests run offline.

To populate the cache contents run `wunderctl generate --clear-cache`.
This will delete any previous cache, introspect the data sources, and
finally write the cache entries. `.wunderctl/cache` can then be stored
and deployed to CI runners.

To verify that your tests can run without fetching data from the network
in a connected machine, the `--offline` flag can be used to disable loading
remote resources.

## Enable Introspection Polling

If you want to enable introspection polling,
set a reasonable interval for the `pollingIntervalSeconds` value.
For most data sources, an interval of 2-5 seconds should be fine.
For remote data sources with large schemas,
we recommend setting the interval to a higher value to not overload the remote server.

```typescript
// wundergraph.config.ts
const spaceX = introspect.graphql({
  apiNamespace: 'spacex',
  url: 'https://spacex-api.fly.dev/graphql/',
  introspection: {
    pollingIntervalSeconds: 5,
  },
})
```

## Disable Introspection Caching

It's also possible to disable introspection caching for a given data source.
Set `disableCache` to true, and `wunderctl up` will ignore the cache for this data source.

```typescript
// wundergraph.config.ts
const spaceX = introspect.graphql({
  apiNamespace: 'spacex',
  url: 'https://spacex-api.fly.dev/graphql/',
  introspection: {
    disableCache: true,
  },
})
```

Disabling the cache can result in reduced performance,
because the data source is introspected every time a configuration file is changed.

{% callout type="warning" %}
Disabling the cache will not help you if you're changing the schema of your database.
The process will only re-introspect if a file is changed.
{% /callout %}

## Introspection of protected GraphQL APIs

In order to authorize introspection request you have to add header either via headers configuration or by a similar headers builder in the introspection configuration.

### Provide headers with headers configuration

Using this approach you could use the same static headers for introspection and for requests at runtime.

Specifying dynamic (client request headers) will have no effect on introspection.
That's because at introspection time, there's no client request.
So, only static headers (string or environment variables) will work.

```typescript
// simple graphql api
const countries = introspect.graphql({
  apiNamespace: 'countries',
  url: ' http://localhost:4000/',
  headers: (builder) =>
    builder
      // this header has no effect on introspection
      .addClientRequestHeader('X-Authorization', 'Authorization')
      // this header is shared between introspection and actual requests
      .addStaticHeader('Authorization', 'Secret'),
})

// or federated api
const federatedApi = introspect.federation({
  apiNamespace: 'federated',
  upstreams: [
    {
      url: 'http://localhost:4001/graphql',
      headers: (builder) => builder.addStaticHeader('Authorization', 'Secret'),
    },
  ],
})
```

### Provide headers with introspection configuration

By providing headers in the introspection configuration you could avoid using static header for all requests.
Headers configured in a such way will be used only for the graphql introspection and getting the service sdl query in case of federated api.

```typescript
// simple graphql api
const countries = introspect.graphql({
  apiNamespace: 'countries',
  url: ' http://localhost:4000/',
  headers: (builder) =>
    builder.addClientRequestHeader('X-Authorization', 'Authorization'),
  introspection: {
    headers: (builder) => builder.addStaticHeader('Authorization', 'Secret'),
  },
})

// or federated api
const federatedApi = introspect.federation({
  apiNamespace: 'federated',
  upstreams: [
    {
      url: 'http://localhost:4001/graphql',
      introspection: {
        headers: (builder) =>
          builder.addStaticHeader('Authorization', 'Secret'),
      },
    },
  ],
})
```

You could even mix up both approaches.
In this case introspection headers will be merged with the headers provided in the headers configuration and the headers provided in the introspection configuration will have higher priority for the introspection request.

```typescript
const countries = introspect.graphql({
  apiNamespace: 'countries',
  url: ' http://localhost:4000/',
  headers: (builder) => builder.addStaticHeader('Authorization', 'Secret One'),
  introspection: {
    headers: (builder) =>
      builder.addStaticHeader('Authorization', 'Secret Two'),
  },
})
```

Commit message:

feat: new local cache implementation (#727)
- Improve cache key derivation, taking into account all local data that might influence the introspection result
- Move cache location to node_modules/.cache/wundergraph
- Disable cache for wunderctl generate
- By default, skip cache lookups on first run of wunderctl up
- Enable polling by default for remote data sources during development
- Also, fix pesky test in httpidletimeout, because CI wouldn't pass otherwise

docs-website/src/pages/docs/wundergraph-config-ts-reference/configure-introspection.md, after:

---
title: Configure Introspection
pageTitle: WunderGraph - Configure Introspection
description:
---

When running `wunderctl up`,
WunderGraph automatically sets up a number of file watchers to automatically re-generate the configuration and re-start the WunderGraph Server when changes are made to the configuration.

This approach has two downsides.
First, we can only detect changes to the file system.
So, if you're changing the schema of your database,
you'd have to manually re-start the process,
which would be inconvenient.

Second, whenever you change one of the configuration files,
e.g. you modify a GraphQL Operation,
`wunderctl` would have to re-introspect all data sources.
This works fine for a small number of data sources,
but doesn't really scale.

## Introspection Caching

That's why we've introduced introspection caching.

{% callout type="warning" %}
By default, every data source is introspected exactly once.
The result is cached in the `.wundergraph/cache/introspection` directory.
{% /callout %}

When caching is enabled, if a cache entry is found for a data source,
it's always used instead of introspecting the data source again. Cache is
optional and might be turned off globally using the `--no-cache` flag.

## Clearing the Cache

Cache can be emptied when `wunderctl` starts by using the `--clear-cache`
flag. Additionally, `wunderctl up` will automatically clear the cache
when it starts up. To clear the cache again, just restart it.

## Pregenerating the Cache

For CI environments that cannot perform network requests, it might be
useful to generate the cache contents and make the tests run offline.

To populate the cache contents run `wunderctl generate --clear-cache`.
This will delete any previous cache, introspect the data sources, and
finally write the cache entries. `.wunderctl/cache` can then be stored
and deployed to CI runners.

To verify that your tests can run without fetching data from the network
in a connected machine, the `--offline` flag can be used to disable loading
remote resources.

## Introspection Polling

By default, `wunderctl up` will poll remote data sources periodically every 5 seconds,
which should be fine for most data sources. The default interval can be changed using
the `--default-polling-interval` flag.

For remote data sources with large schemas,
we recommend setting the interval to a higher value to not overload the remote server.
To set a different polling interval, use `pollingIntervalSeconds`:

```typescript
// wundergraph.config.ts
const spaceX = introspect.graphql({
  apiNamespace: 'spacex',
  url: 'https://spacex-api.fly.dev/graphql/',
  introspection: {
    pollingIntervalSeconds: 30,
  },
});
```

To disable polling for a given data source, set its `pollingIntervalSeconds` to `0`. Additionally,
the default polling interval can also be disabled using `--default-polling-interval=5`.

## Disable Introspection Caching

It's also possible to disable introspection caching for a given data source.
Set `disableCache` to true, and `wunderctl up` will ignore the cache for this data source.

```typescript
// wundergraph.config.ts
const spaceX = introspect.graphql({
  apiNamespace: 'spacex',
  url: 'https://spacex-api.fly.dev/graphql/',
  introspection: {
    disableCache: true,
  },
});
```

Disabling the cache can result in reduced performance,
because the data source is introspected every time a configuration file is changed.

{% callout type="warning" %}
Disabling the cache will not help you if you're changing the schema of your database.
The process will only re-introspect if a file is changed.
{% /callout %}

## Introspection of protected GraphQL APIs

In order to authorize introspection request you have to add header either via headers configuration or by a similar headers builder in the introspection configuration.

### Provide headers with headers configuration

Using this approach you could use the same static headers for introspection and for requests at runtime.

Specifying dynamic (client request headers) will have no effect on introspection.
That's because at introspection time, there's no client request.
So, only static headers (string or environment variables) will work.

```typescript
// simple graphql api
const countries = introspect.graphql({
  apiNamespace: 'countries',
  url: ' http://localhost:4000/',
  headers: (builder) =>
    builder
      // this header has no effect on introspection
      .addClientRequestHeader('X-Authorization', 'Authorization')
      // this header is shared between introspection and actual requests
      .addStaticHeader('Authorization', 'Secret'),
});

// or federated api
const federatedApi = introspect.federation({
  apiNamespace: 'federated',
  upstreams: [
    {
      url: 'http://localhost:4001/graphql',
      headers: (builder) => builder.addStaticHeader('Authorization', 'Secret'),
    },
  ],
});
```

### Provide headers with introspection configuration

By providing headers in the introspection configuration you could avoid using static header for all requests.
Headers configured in a such way will be used only for the graphql introspection and getting the service sdl query in case of federated api.

```typescript
// simple graphql api
const countries = introspect.graphql({
  apiNamespace: 'countries',
  url: ' http://localhost:4000/',
  headers: (builder) => builder.addClientRequestHeader('X-Authorization', 'Authorization'),
  introspection: {
    headers: (builder) => builder.addStaticHeader('Authorization', 'Secret'),
  },
});

// or federated api
const federatedApi = introspect.federation({
  apiNamespace: 'federated',
  upstreams: [
    {
      url: 'http://localhost:4001/graphql',
      introspection: {
        headers: (builder) => builder.addStaticHeader('Authorization', 'Secret'),
      },
    },
  ],
});
```

You could even mix up both approaches.
In this case introspection headers will be merged with the headers provided in the headers configuration and the headers provided in the introspection configuration will have higher priority for the introspection request.

```typescript
const countries = introspect.graphql({
  apiNamespace: 'countries',
  url: ' http://localhost:4000/',
  headers: (builder) => builder.addStaticHeader('Authorization', 'Secret One'),
  introspection: {
    headers: (builder) => builder.addStaticHeader('Authorization', 'Secret Two'),
  },
});
```
