docs-website/src/pages/docs/wundergraph-config-ts-reference/configure-wundernode-options.md, before:

---
title: Configure WunderNode options
pageTitle: 'WunderGraph - Configure WunderNode options'
description:
---

This section describes how to set configurations options of WunderNode.

## List of available options:

During development all options are optional and will be set via EnvironmentVariables with default values

### `listen.host` (optional)

The host on which the WunderNode should listen.

### `listen.port` (optional)

The port on which the WunderNode should listen.

### `nodeUrl` (optional)

This option allows you to configure the URL where your WunderNode will be deployed.
This is important for the WunderGraph Server to be able to comminucate with WunderNode.
The `nodeUrl` is used to set a base URL for the `.graphqlconfig` file and postman collection

### `logger.level` (optional)

This option allows you to configure the logger level of WunderNode.

## Options default values

| Option         | Default Value           |
| -------------- | ----------------------- |
| `listen.host`  | `127.0.0.1`             |
| `listen.port`  | `9991`                  |
| `nodeUrl`      | `http://localhost:9991` |
| `logger.level` | `INFO`                  |

## Running in production

In production is mandatory provide `nodeUrl`, because WunderGraph Server needs to know where the WunderNode is deployed.

You could provide it either by setting the Default Environment Variable `WG_SERVER_URL` or as a static value.

{% callout type="warning" %}
When no options were provided you still could override default values by setting WG environment variables
{% /callout %}

{% callout type="warning" %}
When using custom environment variables, you need to make sure that the environment variables are set before:

- `wunderctl generate` command is executed
- `WunderNode` starts

{% /callout %}

## Configuration examples

### Configure options with static values

```typescript
configureWunderGraphApplication({
  options: {
    listen: {
      host: '127.0.0.1',
      port: '4444',
    },
    nodeUrl: 'http://localhost:4444/',
    logger: {
      level: 'DEBUG',
    },
  },
})
```

### Configure options with custom environment variables

```typescript
import { EnvironmentVariable, LoggerLevel } from '@wundergraph/sdk'

configureWunderGraphApplication({
  options: {
    listen: {
      host: new EnvironmentVariable('NODE_HOST', '127.0.0.1'),
      port: new EnvironmentVariable('NODE_PORT', '4444'),
    },
    nodeUrl: new EnvironmentVariable('NODE_URL', 'http://localhost:4444/'),
    logger: {
      level: new EnvironmentVariable<LoggerLevel>('NODE_LOG_LEVEL', 'DEBUG'),
    },
  },
})
```

### Configure options with default environment variables

This configuration illustrates what options you will get when options are not provided via the config.

By using default environment variables names you could stick with Wundergraph Default behaviour but supply different default values.

```typescript
import { EnvironmentVariable, LoggerLevel, WgEnv } from '@wundergraph/sdk'

// use WgEnv enum to set variable names
configureWunderGraphApplication({
  options: {
    listen: {
      host: new EnvironmentVariable(WgEnv.NodeHost, '127.0.0.1'),
      port: new EnvironmentVariable(WgEnv.NodePort, '9991'),
    },
    nodeUrl: new EnvironmentVariable(WgEnv.NodeUrl, 'http://localhost:9991/'),
    logger: {
      level: new EnvironmentVariable<LoggerLevel>(WgEnv.LogLevel, 'INFO'),
    },
  },
})

// alternative using plain string variable names
configureWunderGraphApplication({
  options: {
    listen: {
      host: new EnvironmentVariable('WG_NODE_HOST', '127.0.0.1'),
      port: new EnvironmentVariable('WG_NODE_PORT', '9991'),
    },
    nodeUrl: new EnvironmentVariable('WG_NODE_URL', 'http://localhost:9991/'),
    logger: {
      level: new EnvironmentVariable<LoggerLevel>('WG_LOG_LEVEL', 'INFO'),
    },
  },
})
```

Commit message:

chore: link option to default env variables

docs-website/src/pages/docs/wundergraph-config-ts-reference/configure-wundernode-options.md, after:

---
title: Configure WunderNode options
pageTitle: 'WunderGraph - Configure WunderNode options'
description:
---

This section describes how to set configurations options of WunderNode.

## List of available options:

During development all options are optional and will be set via EnvironmentVariables with default values

### `listen.host` (optional)

The host on which the WunderNode should listen.

### `listen.port` (optional)

The port on which the WunderNode should listen.

### `nodeUrl` (optional)

This option allows you to configure the URL where your WunderNode will be deployed.
This is important for the WunderGraph Server to be able to comminucate with WunderNode.
The `nodeUrl` is used to set a base URL for the `.graphqlconfig` file and postman collection

### `logger.level` (optional)

This option allows you to configure the logger level of WunderNode.

## Options default values

Each option when unset will get a value from the `Default Environment Variables` or from the default value of that variable.

| Option         | Default Value           | Default Environment Variable |
| -------------- | ----------------------- | ---------------------------- |
| `listen.host`  | `127.0.0.1`             | `WG_NODE_HOST`               |
| `listen.port`  | `9991`                  | `WG_NODE_PORT`               |
| `nodeUrl`      | `http://localhost:9991` | `WG_NODE_URL`                |
| `logger.level` | `INFO`                  | `WG_LOG_LEVEL`               |

## Running in production

In production is mandatory provide `nodeUrl`, because WunderGraph Server needs to know where the WunderNode is deployed.

You could provide it either by setting the Default Environment Variable `WG_SERVER_URL` or as a static value.

{% callout type="warning" %}
When no options were provided you still could override default values by setting WG environment variables
{% /callout %}

{% callout type="warning" %}
When using custom environment variables, you need to make sure that the environment variables are set before:

- `wunderctl generate` command is executed
- `WunderNode` starts

{% /callout %}

## Configuration examples

### Configure options with static values

```typescript
configureWunderGraphApplication({
  options: {
    listen: {
      host: '127.0.0.1',
      port: '4444',
    },
    nodeUrl: 'http://localhost:4444/',
    logger: {
      level: 'DEBUG',
    },
  },
})
```

### Configure options with custom environment variables

```typescript
import { EnvironmentVariable, LoggerLevel } from '@wundergraph/sdk'

configureWunderGraphApplication({
  options: {
    listen: {
      host: new EnvironmentVariable('NODE_HOST', '127.0.0.1'),
      port: new EnvironmentVariable('NODE_PORT', '4444'),
    },
    nodeUrl: new EnvironmentVariable('NODE_URL', 'http://localhost:4444/'),
    logger: {
      level: new EnvironmentVariable<LoggerLevel>('NODE_LOG_LEVEL', 'DEBUG'),
    },
  },
})
```

### Configure options with default environment variables

This configuration illustrates what options you will get when options are not provided via the config.

By using default environment variables names you could stick with Wundergraph Default behaviour but supply different default values.

```typescript
import { EnvironmentVariable, LoggerLevel, WgEnv } from '@wundergraph/sdk'

// use WgEnv enum to set variable names
configureWunderGraphApplication({
  options: {
    listen: {
      host: new EnvironmentVariable(WgEnv.NodeHost, '127.0.0.1'),
      port: new EnvironmentVariable(WgEnv.NodePort, '9991'),
    },
    nodeUrl: new EnvironmentVariable(WgEnv.NodeUrl, 'http://localhost:9991/'),
    logger: {
      level: new EnvironmentVariable<LoggerLevel>(WgEnv.LogLevel, 'INFO'),
    },
  },
})

// alternative using plain string variable names
configureWunderGraphApplication({
  options: {
    listen: {
      host: new EnvironmentVariable('WG_NODE_HOST', '127.0.0.1'),
      port: new EnvironmentVariable('WG_NODE_PORT', '9991'),
    },
    nodeUrl: new EnvironmentVariable('WG_NODE_URL', 'http://localhost:9991/'),
    logger: {
      level: new EnvironmentVariable<LoggerLevel>('WG_LOG_LEVEL', 'INFO'),
    },
  },
})
```
