docs-website/src/pages/docs/wundergraph-config-ts-reference/configure-data-sources.md, before:

---
title: Data Sources Reference
pageTitle: WunderGraph - Data Sources Reference
description:
---

WunderGraph supports a variety of data sources. They can be configured in the `wundergraph.config.ts` file by adding introspections to the `apis` configuration.

## Usage

```ts
import { configureWunderGraphApplication, introspect } from '@wundergraph/sdk';

const countries = introspect.graphql({
  apiNamespace: 'countries',
  url: 'https://countries.trevorblades.com/',
  requestTimeoutSeconds: 10, // optional
});

configureWunderGraphApplication({
  apis: [countries],
});
```

All data sources are configured using the `introspect` function. The `introspect` function takes a configuration object as its only argument. The configuration object depends on the data source you want to configure.

Each introspection supports an `apiNamespace` property. This property is used to namespace the data source in the GraphQL schema, so that any naming collisions can be prevented.

## Supported introspections

| Introspection            | Description            |
| ------------------------ | ---------------------- |
| `introspect.graphql`     | GraphQL API            |
| `introspect.postgresql`  | PostgreSQL database    |
| `introspect.mysql`       | MySQL database         |
| `introspect.planetscale` | Planetscale database   |
| `introspect.sqlite`      | SQLite database        |
| `introspect.sqlserver`   | SQL Server database    |
| `introspect.mongodb`     | MongoDB database       |
| `introspect.prisma`      | Prisma database        |
| `introspect.federation`  | GraphQL Federation API |
| `introspect.openApi`     | OpenAPI API            |

## GraphQL

```typescript
const countries = introspect.graphql({
  apiNamespace: 'countries',
  url: 'https://countries.trevorblades.com/',
  requestTimeoutSeconds: 10, // optional
});
```

### Properties

| Property                        | Description                                                                                            |
| ------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `url`                           | The URL of the GraphQL service                                                                         |
| `apiNamespace`                  | The namespace of the GraphQL service                                                                   |
| `headers`                       | The headers to send with the request                                                                   |
| `requestTimeoutSeconds`         | The timeout for the request in seconds. Defaults to 10 seconds.                                        |
| `introspection`                 | The introspection query to use. Defaults to the introspection query from the `graphql` package         |
| `loadSchemaFromString`          | A function that returns the schema as a string. This is useful if you want to use a local schema file. |
| `customFloatScalars`            | An array of custom float scalars.                                                                      |
| `customIntScalars`              | An array of custom int scalars.                                                                        |
| `customJSONScalars`             | An array of custom JSON scalars.                                                                       |
| `internal`                      | Whether the GraphQL service is internal. Defaults to `false`                                           |
| `skipRenameRootFields`          | An array of root fields to skip renaming.                                                              |
| `schemaExtension`               | A string that is appended to the schema. Useful for adding custom scalars.                             |
| `replaceCustomScalarTypeFields` | An array of custom scalar type fields to replace.                                                      |

## Databases

### Properties

This configuration applies to the following databases:

- PostgreSQL
- MySQL
- Planetscale
- SQLite
- SQL Server
- MongoDB

```typescript
// wundergraph.config.ts

const db = introspect.postgresql({
  apiNamespace: 'wundergraph',
  databaseURL: 'postgres://postgres:postgres@localhost:5432/wundergraph',
  introspection: {
    pollingIntervalSeconds: 5,
  },
});

configureWunderGraphApplication({
  apis: [db],
});
```

| Property                        | Description                                                                |
| ------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `databaseURL`                   | The connection string to the database                                      |
| `apiNamespace`                  | The namespace of the database                                              |
| `introspection`                 | The introspection configuration                                            |
| `schemaExtension`               | A string that is appended to the schema. Useful for adding custom scalars. |
| `replaceCustomScalarTypeFields` | An array of custom scalar type fields to replace.                          |

## Prisma

You can use the `introspect.prisma` function to configure a Prisma database.

```typescript
// wundergraph.config.ts

const db = introspect.prisma({
  apiNamespace: 'prisma',
  prismaFilePath: 'path/to/prisma/schema.prisma',
});

configureWunderGraphApplication({
  apis: [db],
});
```

### Properties

| Property                        | Description                                                                |
| ------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `prismaFilePath`                | The path to the Prisma schema file                                         |
| `apiNamespace`                  | The namespace of the database                                              |
| `schemaExtension`               | A string that is appended to the schema. Useful for adding custom scalars. |
| `replaceCustomScalarTypeFields` | An array of custom scalar type fields to replace.                          |

## OpenAPI

You can use the `introspect.openApi` function to configure an OpenAPI API.

```typescript
// wundergraph.config.ts

const jsp = introspect.openApi({
  apiNamespace: 'jsp',
  source: {
    kind: 'file',
    filePath: '../json_placeholder.json',
  },
  introspection: {
    pollingIntervalSeconds: 2,
  },
  requestTimeoutSeconds: 10, // optional
});
configureWunderGraphApplication({
  apis: [jsp],
});
```

### Properties

| Property                        | Description                                                                |
| ------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `source`                        | The source of the OpenAPI schema. Either a file or a URL.                  |
| `apiNamespace`                  | The namespace of the OpenAPI API                                           |
| `introspection`                 | The introspection configuration                                            |
| `schemaExtension`               | A string that is appended to the schema. Useful for adding custom scalars. |
| `replaceCustomScalarTypeFields` | An array of custom scalar type fields to replace.                          |

## GraphQL Federation

You can use the `introspect.federation` function to configure a GraphQL Federation API.

```typescript
// wundergraph.config.ts

const federatedApi = introspect.federation({
  apiNamespace: 'federated',
  upstreams: [
    {
      url: 'http://localhost:4001/graphql',
    },
    {
      url: 'http://localhost:4002/graphql',
    },
  ],
});

configureWunderGraphApplication({
  apis: [federatedApi],
});
```

### Properties

| Property                        | Description                                                                |
| ------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `upstreams`                     | An array of upstreams to use for the federation.                           |
| `apiNamespace`                  | The namespace of the GraphQL Federation API                                |
| `introspection`                 | The introspection configuration                                            |
| `schemaExtension`               | A string that is appended to the schema. Useful for adding custom scalars. |
| `replaceCustomScalarTypeFields` | An array of custom scalar type fields to replace.                          |

Commit message:

feat: add support for using proxies in data sources (#854)
* feat: add support for using proxies in data sources

* chore: update snapshots

* fix: properly detect when a source overrides the default proxy

Also, ensure all fields for HTTP proxy have HTTP prefix

* chore: document loadvariable.{String,LookupString}

* chore: support data-source defined proxies during introspection

* feat: add support for using a global proxy during graphql introspection

* chore: allow disabling global proxy by setting ds proxy to null

* perf: generate APIs in parallel

* docs: document newly introduced types

* fix: account for introspection options when generating cache key

* chore: include upstream URL when reporting error in proxy URL

* test: fix test for federated API

* test: update snapshots

* chore: simplify loop

* fix: use resolved variable, otherwise the default gets ignored

* fix: check for non-existing default in EnvironmentVariable

* fix: formatting errors

* fix: proxy url overriding logic

* chore: add log messages when using HTTP proxies

* test: add tests for proxy support

* chore: fix snapshots

* fix: set test timeout correctly

* fix: increase test timeout for CI

* chore: add tests using squid, add workaround for CONNECT

* docs: document options for proxy URL a bit better

* docs: document httpProxyUrl at the right place

* chore: remove unused vitest.config.ts files

* feat: support passing environment variables to createTestServer

* feat: use a local TS based proxy instead of spinning up a container

* chore: set increased timeout limits in describe()

* docs: update data source docs with proxy options

* chore: increase test timeout

* docs: add guide for using HTTP proxies

* refactor: move helper functions to a separate file

* chore: update port number in test to use squid's default port

* docs: rewording

docs-website/src/pages/docs/wundergraph-config-ts-reference/configure-data-sources.md, after:

---
title: Data Sources Reference
pageTitle: WunderGraph - Data Sources Reference
description:
---

WunderGraph supports a variety of data sources. They can be configured in the `wundergraph.config.ts` file by adding introspections to the `apis` configuration.

## Usage

```ts
import { configureWunderGraphApplication, introspect } from '@wundergraph/sdk';

const countries = introspect.graphql({
  apiNamespace: 'countries',
  url: 'https://countries.trevorblades.com/',
  requestTimeoutSeconds: 10, // optional
});

configureWunderGraphApplication({
  apis: [countries],
});
```

All data sources are configured using the `introspect` function. The `introspect` function takes a configuration object as its only argument. The configuration object depends on the data source you want to configure.

Each introspection supports an `apiNamespace` property. This property is used to namespace the data source in the GraphQL schema, so that any naming collisions can be prevented.

## Supported introspections

| Introspection            | Description            |
| ------------------------ | ---------------------- |
| `introspect.graphql`     | GraphQL API            |
| `introspect.postgresql`  | PostgreSQL database    |
| `introspect.mysql`       | MySQL database         |
| `introspect.planetscale` | Planetscale database   |
| `introspect.sqlite`      | SQLite database        |
| `introspect.sqlserver`   | SQL Server database    |
| `introspect.mongodb`     | MongoDB database       |
| `introspect.prisma`      | Prisma database        |
| `introspect.federation`  | GraphQL Federation API |
| `introspect.openApi`     | OpenAPI API            |

## GraphQL

```typescript
const countries = introspect.graphql({
  apiNamespace: 'countries',
  url: 'https://countries.trevorblades.com/',
  requestTimeoutSeconds: 10, // optional
});
```

### Properties

| Property                        | Description                                                                                            |
| ------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `url`                           | The URL of the GraphQL service                                                                         |
| `apiNamespace`                  | The namespace of the GraphQL service                                                                   |
| `headers`                       | The headers to send with the request                                                                   |
| `requestTimeoutSeconds`         | The timeout for the request in seconds. Defaults to 10 seconds.                                        |
| `introspection`                 | The introspection query to use. Defaults to the introspection query from the `graphql` package         |
| `loadSchemaFromString`          | A function that returns the schema as a string. This is useful if you want to use a local schema file. |
| `customFloatScalars`            | An array of custom float scalars.                                                                      |
| `customIntScalars`              | An array of custom int scalars.                                                                        |
| `customJSONScalars`             | An array of custom JSON scalars.                                                                       |
| `internal`                      | Whether the GraphQL service is internal. Defaults to `false`                                           |
| `skipRenameRootFields`          | An array of root fields to skip renaming.                                                              |
| `schemaExtension`               | A string that is appended to the schema. Useful for adding custom scalars.                             |
| `replaceCustomScalarTypeFields` | An array of custom scalar type fields to replace.                                                      |
| `httpProxyUrl`                  | HTTP(S) proxy to use, overriding the default one (if any). Set to `null` to disable.                   |

## Databases

### Properties

This configuration applies to the following databases:

- PostgreSQL
- MySQL
- Planetscale
- SQLite
- SQL Server
- MongoDB

```typescript
// wundergraph.config.ts

const db = introspect.postgresql({
  apiNamespace: 'wundergraph',
  databaseURL: 'postgres://postgres:postgres@localhost:5432/wundergraph',
  introspection: {
    pollingIntervalSeconds: 5,
  },
});

configureWunderGraphApplication({
  apis: [db],
});
```

| Property                        | Description                                                                |
| ------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `databaseURL`                   | The connection string to the database                                      |
| `apiNamespace`                  | The namespace of the database                                              |
| `introspection`                 | The introspection configuration                                            |
| `schemaExtension`               | A string that is appended to the schema. Useful for adding custom scalars. |
| `replaceCustomScalarTypeFields` | An array of custom scalar type fields to replace.                          |

## Prisma

You can use the `introspect.prisma` function to configure a Prisma database.

```typescript
// wundergraph.config.ts

const db = introspect.prisma({
  apiNamespace: 'prisma',
  prismaFilePath: 'path/to/prisma/schema.prisma',
});

configureWunderGraphApplication({
  apis: [db],
});
```

### Properties

| Property                        | Description                                                                |
| ------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `prismaFilePath`                | The path to the Prisma schema file                                         |
| `apiNamespace`                  | The namespace of the database                                              |
| `schemaExtension`               | A string that is appended to the schema. Useful for adding custom scalars. |
| `replaceCustomScalarTypeFields` | An array of custom scalar type fields to replace.                          |

## OpenAPI

You can use the `introspect.openApi` function to configure an OpenAPI API.

```typescript
// wundergraph.config.ts

const jsp = introspect.openApi({
  apiNamespace: 'jsp',
  source: {
    kind: 'file',
    filePath: '../json_placeholder.json',
  },
  introspection: {
    pollingIntervalSeconds: 2,
  },
  requestTimeoutSeconds: 10, // optional
});
configureWunderGraphApplication({
  apis: [jsp],
});
```

### Properties

| Property                        | Description                                                                          |
| ------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `source`                        | The source of the OpenAPI schema. Either a file or a URL.                            |
| `apiNamespace`                  | The namespace of the OpenAPI API                                                     |
| `introspection`                 | The introspection configuration                                                      |
| `schemaExtension`               | A string that is appended to the schema. Useful for adding custom scalars.           |
| `replaceCustomScalarTypeFields` | An array of custom scalar type fields to replace.                                    |
| `httpProxyUrl`                  | HTTP(S) proxy to use, overriding the default one (if any). Set to `null` to disable. |

## GraphQL Federation

You can use the `introspect.federation` function to configure a GraphQL Federation API.

```typescript
// wundergraph.config.ts

const federatedApi = introspect.federation({
  apiNamespace: 'federated',
  upstreams: [
    {
      url: 'http://localhost:4001/graphql',
    },
    {
      url: 'http://localhost:4002/graphql',
    },
  ],
});

configureWunderGraphApplication({
  apis: [federatedApi],
});
```

### Properties

| Property                        | Description                                                                          |
| ------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `upstreams`                     | An array of upstreams to use for the federation.                                     |
| `apiNamespace`                  | The namespace of the GraphQL Federation API                                          |
| `introspection`                 | The introspection configuration                                                      |
| `schemaExtension`               | A string that is appended to the schema. Useful for adding custom scalars.           |
| `replaceCustomScalarTypeFields` | An array of custom scalar type fields to replace.                                    |
| `httpProxyUrl`                  | HTTP(S) proxy to use, overriding the default one (if any). Set to `null` to disable. |
