examples/graphql-hasura-subscriptions/README.md, before:

# WunderGraph subscriptions example - graphql-hasura

### Configuration

- Go to: https://hasura.io/learn/graphql/graphiql

You will need to complete a simple signup form (just mail and password) to get access to the
GraphiQL interface, and obtain token.

- Set the authorization header, using the token you obtained from the previous step,
  replace `Secret` with your token in `wundergraph.config.ts`:

````bash
```typescript
const hasura = introspect.graphql({
  apiNamespace: 'hasura',
  url: 'https://hasura.io/learn/graphql',
  headers: (builder) => builder.addStaticHeader('Authorization', 'Secret'),
});
````

#### Getting started

```shell
npm install && npm start
```

#### Check results

```shell
curl -N http://localhost:9991/operations/Users
```

```shell
curl -N http://localhost:9991/operations/Todo
```

#### SSE output

```shell
 curl -N http://localhost:9991/operations/Users\?wg_sse\=true
```

#### TS operation

```shell
curl -N http://localhost:9991/operations/users/get?id=1
```

#### Playground

Use https://hasura.io/learn/graphql/graphiql to add new users and todos, and explore schema.
Add new operations to the `.wundergraph/operations` folder and run `npm start` to see the results.

## Learn More

Read the [Docs](https://wundergraph.com/docs).

## Deploy to WunderGraph Cloud

[![Deploy to WunderGraph](https://wundergraph.com/button)](https://cloud.wundergraph.com/new/clone?templateName=graphql-hasura-subscriptions)

## Got Questions?

Join us on [Discord](https://wundergraph.com/discord)!

Commit message:

fix: graphql-hasura-subscriptions example
- Check that the example does work
- Change token configuration approach to use the environment, update
README
- Add tests

examples/graphql-hasura-subscriptions/README.md, after:

# WunderGraph subscriptions example - graphql-hasura

### Configuration

- Go to: https://hasura.io/learn/graphql/graphiql

You will need to complete a simple signup form (just mail and password) to get access to the
GraphiQL interface, and obtain token. Make sure you copy the entire token, since it
overflows its bounding box.

- Copy .env.example to .env
- Set your token as HASURA_BEARER_TOKEN=your_token

#### Getting started

```shell
npm install && npm start
```

#### Check results

```shell
curl -N http://localhost:9991/operations/Users
```

```shell
curl -N http://localhost:9991/operations/Todo
```

#### SSE output

```shell
 curl -N http://localhost:9991/operations/Users\?wg_sse\=true
```

#### TS operation

```shell
curl -N http://localhost:9991/operations/users/get?id=1
```

#### Playground

Use https://hasura.io/learn/graphql/graphiql to add new users and todos, and explore schema.
Add new operations to the `.wundergraph/operations` folder and run `npm start` to see the results.

## Learn More

Read the [Docs](https://wundergraph.com/docs).

## Deploy to WunderGraph Cloud

[![Deploy to WunderGraph](https://wundergraph.com/button)](https://cloud.wundergraph.com/new/clone?templateName=graphql-hasura-subscriptions)

## Got Questions?

Join us on [Discord](https://wundergraph.com/discord)!
