docs-website/src/pages/getting-started.md, before:

---
title: Getting started
pageTitle: WunderGraph - Getting started with WunderGraph
description: Initialize your WunderGraph development environment and get started using WunderGraph
---

## Quick start

This quick start guide will help you to start a new WunderGraph project from scratch.

```shell
# Init a new project with the Next.js starter kit
npx -y @wundergraph/wunderctl init \
	--template nextjs-starter

# Install dependencies and start
npm i && npm start
```

## Integrating WunderGraph with an existing project

You can also easily integrate WunderGraph into your existing projects.

```shell
npx -y @wundergraph/wunderctl init
```

## More Examples

Have a look at [other examples](/docs/examples) we provide, to get a better understanding of WunderGraph.

## Where to go next?

If you're not yet sure what kind of problems WunderGraph can solve for you,
check out [the different use cases](/docs/use-cases) we support,
and the different [features](/docs/features) we provide.
You might also be interested to learn more about the [architecture](/docs/architecture) of WunderGraph.
If you haven't read our [Manifesto](/manifesto) yet, it's a great way to better understand what we're working on and why.

If you've got questions, please [join our Discord community](https://wundergraph.com/discord) or [contact us](https://wundergraph.com/contact/sales).

Commit message:

feat: minor improvements in getting-started page
- Provide intructions to install node
- When creating a new project, generate a new directory for it rather
  than dumping the template contents on the current one
- Add a paragraph indicating that other templates are available and can
  be listed using wunderctl

docs-website/src/pages/getting-started.md, after:

---
title: Getting started
pageTitle: WunderGraph - Getting started with WunderGraph
description: Initialize your WunderGraph development environment and get started using WunderGraph
---

## Quick start

This quick start guide will help you to start a new WunderGraph project from scratch.

## Install Node.js

Wundergraph uses Node.js to manage and run your projects. Install it following their
[official instructions](https://nodejs.org).

## Creating a new WunderGraph project

```shell
# Init a new project with the Next.js starter kit
npx -y @wundergraph/wunderctl init \
	--template nextjs-starter \
	-o my-project

# Move the the project directory
cd my-project

# Install dependencies and start
npm i && npm start
```

## Integrating WunderGraph with an existing project

You can also easily integrate WunderGraph into your existing projects.

```shell
npx -y @wundergraph/wunderctl init
```

## Project templates

WunderGraph ships with multiple project templates that can help you
get started faster. You can view all the available ones running:

```shell
npx -y @wundergraph/wunderctl templates
```

## More Examples

Have a look at [other examples](/docs/examples) we provide, to get a better understanding of WunderGraph.

## Where to go next?

If you're not yet sure what kind of problems WunderGraph can solve for you,
check out [the different use cases](/docs/use-cases) we support,
and the different [features](/docs/features) we provide.
You might also be interested to learn more about the [architecture](/docs/architecture) of WunderGraph.
If you haven't read our [Manifesto](/manifesto) yet, it's a great way to better understand what we're working on and why.

If you've got questions, please [join our Discord community](https://wundergraph.com/discord) or [contact us](https://wundergraph.com/contact/sales).
