docs-website/src/pages/docs/getting-started/nextjs-quickstart.md, before:

---
title: Next.js Quickstart
pageTitle: WunderGraph and Next.js Quickstart
description: Getting started with WunderGraph and Next.js
---

This quickstart guide will show you how to use WunderGraph with Next.js and goes into a couple of details like server side rendering and TypeScript operations.

## Creating a new WunderGraph project with Next.js

We'll use the next.js example to get started. This example is a basic Next.js application that uses WunderGraph to fetch data from the [SpaceX GraphQL API](https://spacex-api.fly.dev/graphql).

```shell
# Init a new project
npx create-wundergraph-app my-project --example nextjs

# Move to the project directory
cd my-project

# Install dependencies
npm i
```

## Start Next.js and WunderGraph

```shell
npm start
```

WunderGraph will now do some code generation and start the WunderNode and the Next.js dev server.
A new browser window will open at [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000). You should see the WunderGraph & Next.js example homepage with the JSON result of the Dragons operation.

```json
{
  "data": {
    "spacex_dragons": [
      { "name": "Dragon 1", "active": true },
      { "name": "Dragon 2", "active": true }
    ]
  },
  "isValidating": false,
  "isLoading": false
}
```

## Configure WunderGraph

WunderGraph lives in the `.wundergraph` directory by default. This is where you can configure your WunderGraph application and write your operations.

Let's take a look at the default configuration open `.wundergraph/wundergraph.config.ts`.

You can see that we have a single API configured, which is the [SpaceX GraphQL API](https://spacex-api.fly.dev/graphql).

```ts
const spaceX = introspect.graphql({
  apiNamespace: 'spacex',
  url: 'https://spacex-api.fly.dev/graphql/',
});
```

The API is introspected and added to the WunderGraph virtual graph, as you can see here:

```ts
configureWunderGraphApplication({
  apis: [countries],
  // ...
  codeGenerators: [
    {
      templates: [...templates.typescript.all],
    },
    {
      templates: [new NextJsTemplate()],
      path: '../components/generated',
    },
  ],
  // ...
});
```

What's different from the [1-minute quickstart](/docs/quickstart) here is we added a `NextJsTemplate` to the code generators. This will generate the typesafe client and React hooks that can be used in Next.js.

Now let's take a look at the operations.

## Operations

Operations are written in the `.wundergraph/operations` directory. They can be written in Graphql or TypeScript.
Let's check out the Dragons operation, open `.wundergraph/operations/Dragons.graphql`.

```graphql
query Dragons {
  spacex_dragons {
    name
    active
  }
}
```

This simply fetches the name and active status of all the SpaceX dragons, we can run this operation in Next.js by using the generated React hooks.

## Calling the operation in Next.js

Open `pages/index.tsx`, there you will find the following code:

```tsx
const dragons = useQuery({
  operationName: 'Dragons',
});
```

The operation name is the name of the file in the operations directory, without the extension. The `useQuery` hook will return the result of the operation.

```tsx
const { data, error, isLoading, isValidating } = dragons;
```

Let's modify the Dragons operation and add a limit parameter and return extra fields.
Open `.wundergraph/operations/Dragons.graphql` and change it to:

```graphql
query Dragons($limit: Int!) {
  spacex_dragons(limit: $limit) {
    id
    name
    active
  }
}
```

The WunderGraph server will automatically pick up on the changes and re-generate the types.
Go back to `pages/index.tsx` and you will see that the `Dragons` operation now has a required `limit` input parameter.

```tsx
const dragons = useQuery({
  operationName: 'Dragons',
  input: {
    limit: 1,
  },
});
```

Refresh the page in your browser, the result will look like this:

```json
{
  "data": { "spacex_dragons": [{ "id": "dragon1", "name": "Dragon 1", "active": true }] },
  "isValidating": false,
  "isLoading": false
}
```

## Server side rendering

Next.js supports server side rendering, which means that the page is rendered on the server and then sent to the browser. This is great for SEO and performance. WunderGraph supports server side rendering as well.

Let's take a look at the `pages/index.tsx` file again. You will see that we are using the `useQuery` hook to fetch the data. This hook will fetch the data on the client side, which means that the page will be rendered on the client side.

To render the page on the server side, all we need to wrap our Page or App with `withWunderGraph`. This will make sure that the page is rendered on the server side, WunderGraph does all the hard work for you.

```tsx
export default withWunderGraph(Home);
```

## TypeScript Operations

WunderGraph allows you to write your operation using TypeScript. TypeScript Operations are a great way to use WunderGraph as a fully featured backend framework. Let's find out how to write a TypeScript operation.

Open `.wundergraph/operations/users/get.ts`

```ts
import { createOperation, z } from '../../generated/wundergraph.factory';

export default createOperation.query({
  input: z.object({
    id: z.string(),
  }),
  handler: async ({ input }) => {
    return {
      id: input.id,
      name: 'Jens',
      bio: 'Founder of WunderGraph',
    };
  },
});
```

This operation will return a user with the given id. We simply return a plain object here, but you can also return a database model or any other data type. We're using Zod to create the input schema, this will make sure that the input is validated before it reaches the handler.

Open `pages/users/index.tsx`

```tsx
const { data } = useQuery({
  operationName: 'users/get',
  input: {
    id: '1',
  },
});
```

You can call TypeScript operations just like Graphql operations, fully type safe. Note that the operation name is `users/get`, this is the path to the operation file, without the extension. We use filebased router for operations, similar to Next.js pages. This allows you to keep your operations organized.

## What's next?

Wunderbar! You've added your first Graphql API to Next.js. Next up you might want to add a database, authentication and support uploads to turn Next.js into a full stack powerhouse 😎.

- [Databases](/docs/databases)
- [Authentication](/docs/authentication)
- [Realtime](/docs/realtime)
- [File Storage](/docs/file-storage)

### Guides

Learn more advanced topics in our [guides](/docs/guides) and get comfortable with WunderGraph.

### More Examples

Have a look at [other examples](/docs/examples) we provide, to get a better understanding of WunderGraph.

### Want to know more about WunderGraph?

If you're not yet sure what kind of problems WunderGraph can solve for you,
check out [the different use cases](/docs/use-cases) we support,
and the different [features](/docs/features) we provide.
You might also be interested to learn more about the [architecture](/docs/architecture) of WunderGraph.
If you haven't read our [Manifesto](/manifesto) yet, it's a great way to better understand what we're working on and why.

If you've got questions, please [join our Discord community](https://wundergraph.com/discord) or [contact us](https://wundergraph.com/contact/sales).

Commit message:

chore: change typo countries -> spaceX (#677)
Co-authored-by: David Stutt <david@wundergraph.com>

docs-website/src/pages/docs/getting-started/nextjs-quickstart.md, after:

---
title: Next.js Quickstart
pageTitle: WunderGraph and Next.js Quickstart
description: Getting started with WunderGraph and Next.js
---

This quickstart guide will show you how to use WunderGraph with Next.js and goes into a couple of details like server side rendering and TypeScript operations.

## Creating a new WunderGraph project with Next.js

We'll use the next.js example to get started. This example is a basic Next.js application that uses WunderGraph to fetch data from the [SpaceX GraphQL API](https://spacex-api.fly.dev/graphql).

```shell
# Init a new project
npx create-wundergraph-app my-project --example nextjs

# Move to the project directory
cd my-project

# Install dependencies
npm i
```

## Start Next.js and WunderGraph

```shell
npm start
```

WunderGraph will now do some code generation and start the WunderNode and the Next.js dev server.
A new browser window will open at [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000). You should see the WunderGraph & Next.js example homepage with the JSON result of the Dragons operation.

```json
{
  "data": {
    "spacex_dragons": [
      { "name": "Dragon 1", "active": true },
      { "name": "Dragon 2", "active": true }
    ]
  },
  "isValidating": false,
  "isLoading": false
}
```

## Configure WunderGraph

WunderGraph lives in the `.wundergraph` directory by default. This is where you can configure your WunderGraph application and write your operations.

Let's take a look at the default configuration open `.wundergraph/wundergraph.config.ts`.

You can see that we have a single API configured, which is the [SpaceX GraphQL API](https://spacex-api.fly.dev/graphql).

```ts
// the name of this const will be supplied to the apis property in the configuration
const spaceX = introspect.graphql({
  apiNamespace: 'spacex',
  url: 'https://spacex-api.fly.dev/graphql/',
});
```

The API is introspected and added to the WunderGraph virtual graph, as you can see here:

```ts
configureWunderGraphApplication({
  // the const defined above is provided in the array of apis here
  apis: [spaceX],
  // ...
  codeGenerators: [
    {
      templates: [...templates.typescript.all],
    },
    {
      templates: [new NextJsTemplate()],
      path: '../components/generated',
    },
  ],
  // ...
});
```

What's different from the [1-minute quickstart](/docs/quickstart) here is we added a `NextJsTemplate` to the code generators. This will generate the typesafe client and React hooks that can be used in Next.js.

Now let's take a look at the operations.

## Operations

Operations are written in the `.wundergraph/operations` directory. They can be written in Graphql or TypeScript.
Let's check out the Dragons operation, open `.wundergraph/operations/Dragons.graphql`.

```graphql
query Dragons {
  spacex_dragons {
    name
    active
  }
}
```

This simply fetches the name and active status of all the SpaceX dragons, we can run this operation in Next.js by using the generated React hooks.

## Calling the operation in Next.js

Open `pages/index.tsx`, there you will find the following code:

```tsx
const dragons = useQuery({
  operationName: 'Dragons',
});
```

The operation name is the name of the file in the operations directory, without the extension. The `useQuery` hook will return the result of the operation.

```tsx
const { data, error, isLoading, isValidating } = dragons;
```

Let's modify the Dragons operation and add a limit parameter and return extra fields.
Open `.wundergraph/operations/Dragons.graphql` and change it to:

```graphql
query Dragons($limit: Int!) {
  spacex_dragons(limit: $limit) {
    id
    name
    active
  }
}
```

The WunderGraph server will automatically pick up on the changes and re-generate the types.
Go back to `pages/index.tsx` and you will see that the `Dragons` operation now has a required `limit` input parameter.

```tsx
const dragons = useQuery({
  operationName: 'Dragons',
  input: {
    limit: 1,
  },
});
```

Refresh the page in your browser, the result will look like this:

```json
{
  "data": { "spacex_dragons": [{ "id": "dragon1", "name": "Dragon 1", "active": true }] },
  "isValidating": false,
  "isLoading": false
}
```

## Server side rendering

Next.js supports server side rendering, which means that the page is rendered on the server and then sent to the browser. This is great for SEO and performance. WunderGraph supports server side rendering as well.

Let's take a look at the `pages/index.tsx` file again. You will see that we are using the `useQuery` hook to fetch the data. This hook will fetch the data on the client side, which means that the page will be rendered on the client side.

To render the page on the server side, all we need to wrap our Page or App with `withWunderGraph`. This will make sure that the page is rendered on the server side, WunderGraph does all the hard work for you.

```tsx
export default withWunderGraph(Home);
```

## TypeScript Operations

WunderGraph allows you to write your operation using TypeScript. TypeScript Operations are a great way to use WunderGraph as a fully featured backend framework. Let's find out how to write a TypeScript operation.

Open `.wundergraph/operations/users/get.ts`

```ts
import { createOperation, z } from '../../generated/wundergraph.factory';

export default createOperation.query({
  input: z.object({
    id: z.string(),
  }),
  handler: async ({ input }) => {
    return {
      id: input.id,
      name: 'Jens',
      bio: 'Founder of WunderGraph',
    };
  },
});
```

This operation will return a user with the given id. We simply return a plain object here, but you can also return a database model or any other data type. We're using Zod to create the input schema, this will make sure that the input is validated before it reaches the handler.

Open `pages/users/index.tsx`

```tsx
const { data } = useQuery({
  operationName: 'users/get',
  input: {
    id: '1',
  },
});
```

You can call TypeScript operations just like Graphql operations, fully type safe. Note that the operation name is `users/get`, this is the path to the operation file, without the extension. We use filebased router for operations, similar to Next.js pages. This allows you to keep your operations organized.

## What's next?

Wunderbar! You've added your first Graphql API to Next.js. Next up you might want to add a database, authentication and support uploads to turn Next.js into a full stack powerhouse 😎.

- [Databases](/docs/databases)
- [Authentication](/docs/auth)
- [File Storage](/docs/storage)

### Guides

Learn more advanced topics in our [guides](/docs/guides) and get comfortable with WunderGraph.

### More Examples

Have a look at [other examples](/docs/examples) we provide, to get a better understanding of WunderGraph.

### Want to know more about WunderGraph?

If you're not yet sure what kind of problems WunderGraph can solve for you,
check out [the different use cases](/docs/use-cases) we support,
and the different [features](/docs/features) we provide.
You might also be interested to learn more about the [architecture](/docs/architecture) of WunderGraph.
If you haven't read our [Manifesto](/manifesto) yet, it's a great way to better understand what we're working on and why.

If you've got questions, please [join our Discord community](https://wundergraph.com/discord) or [contact us](https://wundergraph.com/contact/sales).
