docs-website/src/pages/docs/getting-started/vite-quickstart.md, before:

---
title: Vite Quickstart
pageTitle: WunderGraph and Vite Quickstart
description: Getting started with WunderGraph and Vite
---

This quickstart guide will show you how to use WunderGraph with Vite using our SWR client.

## Creating a new WunderGraph project with Vite

We'll use the Vite example to get started. This example is a basic Vite application that uses WunderGraph to fetch data from the [SpaceX GraphQL API](https://spacex-api.fly.dev/graphql).

```shell
# Init a new project
npx create-wundergraph-app my-project --example vite-swr

# Move to the project directory
cd my-project

# Install dependencies
npm i
```

## Start Vite and WunderGraph

```shell
npm start
```

WunderGraph will now do some code generation and start the WunderNode and the Vite dev server.
A new browser window will open at [http://localhost:5173](http://localhost:5173). You should see the WunderGraph & Vite example homepage with the JSON result of the Dragons operation.

```json
{
  "data": {
    "spacex_dragons": [
      { "name": "Dragon 1", "active": true },
      { "name": "Dragon 2", "active": true }
    ]
  },
  "isValidating": false,
  "isLoading": false
}
```

## Configure WunderGraph

WunderGraph lives in the `.wundergraph` directory by default. This is where you can configure your WunderGraph application and write your operations.

Let's take a look at the default configuration open `.wundergraph/wundergraph.config.ts`.

You can see that we have a single API configured, which is the [SpaceX GraphQL API](https://spacex-api.fly.dev/graphql).

```ts
const spaceX = introspect.graphql({
  apiNamespace: 'spacex',
  url: 'https://spacex-api.fly.dev/graphql/',
});
```

The API is introspected and added to the WunderGraph virtual graph, as you can see here:

```ts
configureWunderGraphApplication({
  apis: [countries],
  // ...
  codeGenerators: [
    {
      templates: [...templates.typescript.all],
    },
    {
      templates: [templates.typescript.client],
      path: '../src/generated',
    },
  ],
  // ...
});
```

What's different from the [1-minute quickstart](/docs/quickstart) here is we added type Typescript client to the code generators. This will generate the typesafe client that we need to set up SWR.

Open `src/lib/wundergraph.ts`, you will see the following code:

```ts
import { createClient, Operations } from '../generated/client';

import { createHooks } from '@wundergraph/swr';

export const client = createClient();

export const { useQuery, useMutation, useSubscription, useUser, useAuth } = createHooks<Operations>(client);
```

We initate the WunderGraph client and create the SWR hooks that we will use in our application.

Now let's take a look at the operations.

## Operations

Operations are written in the `.wundergraph/operations` directory. They can be written in Graphql or TypeScript.
Let's check out the Dragons operation, open `.wundergraph/operations/Dragons.graphql`.

```graphql
query Dragons {
  spacex_dragons {
    name
    active
  }
}
```

This simply fetches the name and active status of all the SpaceX dragons, we can run this operation in Vite by using the SWR hooks.

## Calling the operation in Vite

Open `pages/index.tsx`, there you will find the following code:

```tsx
const dragons = useQuery({
  operationName: 'Dragons',
});
```

The operation name is the name of the file in the operations directory, without the extension. The `useQuery` hook will return the result of the operation.

```tsx
const { data, error, isLoading, isValidating } = dragons;
```

Let's modify the Dragons operation and add a limit parameter and return extra fields.
Open `.wundergraph/operations/Dragons.graphql` and change it to:

```graphql
query Dragons($limit: Int!) {
  spacex_dragons(limit: $limit) {
    id
    name
    active
  }
}
```

The WunderGraph server will automatically pick up on the changes and re-generate the types.
Go back to `pages/index.tsx` and you will see that the `Dragons` operation now has a required `limit` input parameter.

```tsx
const dragons = useQuery({
  operationName: 'Dragons',
  input: {
    limit: 1,
  },
});
```

Refresh the page in your browser, the result will look like this:

```json
{
  "data": { "spacex_dragons": [{ "id": "dragon1", "name": "Dragon 1", "active": true }] },
  "isValidating": false,
  "isLoading": false
}
```

## TypeScript Operations

WunderGraph allows you to write your operation using TypeScript. TypeScript Operations are a great way to use WunderGraph as a fully featured backend framework. Let's find out how to write a TypeScript operation.

Open `.wundergraph/operations/users/get.ts`

```ts
import { createOperation, z } from '../../generated/wundergraph.factory';

export default createOperation.query({
  input: z.object({
    id: z.string(),
  }),
  handler: async ({ input }) => {
    return {
      id: input.id,
      name: 'Jens',
      bio: 'Founder of WunderGraph',
    };
  },
});
```

This operation will return a user with the given id. We simply return a plain object here, but you can also return a database model or any other data type. We're using Zod to create the input schema, this will make sure that the input is validated before it reaches the handler.

Open `src/components/users/User.tsx`

```tsx
const { data } = useQuery({
  operationName: 'users/get',
  input: {
    id: '1',
  },
});
```

You can call TypeScript operations just like Graphql operations, fully type safe. Note that the operation name is `users/get`, this is the path to the operation file, without the extension. We use filebased routing for operations, this allows you to keep your operations organized.

## What's next?

Wunderbar! You've added your first Graphql API to Vite. Next up you might want to add a database, authentication and support uploads to turn Vite into a full stack powerhouse 😎.

- [Databases](/docs/databases)
- [Authentication](/docs/authentication)
- [Realtime](/docs/realtime)
- [File Storage](/docs/file-storage)

### Guides

Learn more advanced topics in our [guides](/docs/guides) and get comfortable with WunderGraph.

### More Examples

Have a look at [other examples](/docs/examples) we provide, to get a better understanding of WunderGraph.

### Want to know more about WunderGraph?

If you're not yet sure what kind of problems WunderGraph can solve for you,
check out [the different use cases](/docs/use-cases) we support,
and the different [features](/docs/features) we provide.
You might also be interested to learn more about the [architecture](/docs/architecture) of WunderGraph.
If you haven't read our [Manifesto](/manifesto) yet, it's a great way to better understand what we're working on and why.

If you've got questions, please [join our Discord community](https://wundergraph.com/discord) or [contact us](https://wundergraph.com/contact/sales).

Commit message:

chore: change typo countries -> spaceX (#677)
Co-authored-by: David Stutt <david@wundergraph.com>

docs-website/src/pages/docs/getting-started/vite-quickstart.md, after:

---
title: Vite Quickstart
pageTitle: WunderGraph and Vite Quickstart
description: Getting started with WunderGraph and Vite
---

This quickstart guide will show you how to use WunderGraph with Vite using our SWR client.

## Creating a new WunderGraph project with Vite

We'll use the Vite example to get started. This example is a basic Vite application that uses WunderGraph to fetch data from the [SpaceX GraphQL API](https://spacex-api.fly.dev/graphql).

```shell
# Init a new project
npx create-wundergraph-app my-project --example vite-swr

# Move to the project directory
cd my-project

# Install dependencies
npm i
```

## Start Vite and WunderGraph

```shell
npm start
```

WunderGraph will now do some code generation and start the WunderNode and the Vite dev server.
A new browser window will open at [http://localhost:5173](http://localhost:5173). You should see the WunderGraph & Vite example homepage with the JSON result of the Dragons operation.

```json
{
  "data": {
    "spacex_dragons": [
      { "name": "Dragon 1", "active": true },
      { "name": "Dragon 2", "active": true }
    ]
  },
  "isValidating": false,
  "isLoading": false
}
```

## Configure WunderGraph

WunderGraph lives in the `.wundergraph` directory by default. This is where you can configure your WunderGraph application and write your operations.

Let's take a look at the default configuration open `.wundergraph/wundergraph.config.ts`.

You can see that we have a single API configured, which is the [SpaceX GraphQL API](https://spacex-api.fly.dev/graphql).

```ts
// the name of this const will be supplied to the apis property in the configuration
const spaceX = introspect.graphql({
  apiNamespace: 'spacex',
  url: 'https://spacex-api.fly.dev/graphql/',
});
```

The API is introspected and added to the WunderGraph virtual graph, as you can see here:

```ts
configureWunderGraphApplication({
  // the const defined above is provided in the array of apis here
  apis: [spaceX],
  // ...
  codeGenerators: [
    {
      templates: [...templates.typescript.all],
    },
    {
      templates: [templates.typescript.client],
      path: '../src/generated',
    },
  ],
  // ...
});
```

What's different from the [1-minute quickstart](/docs/quickstart) here is we added type Typescript client to the code generators. This will generate the typesafe client that we need to set up SWR.

Open `src/lib/wundergraph.ts`, you will see the following code:

```ts
import { createClient, Operations } from '../generated/client';

import { createHooks } from '@wundergraph/swr';

export const client = createClient();

export const { useQuery, useMutation, useSubscription, useUser, useAuth } = createHooks<Operations>(client);
```

We initate the WunderGraph client and create the SWR hooks that we will use in our application.

Now let's take a look at the operations.

## Operations

Operations are written in the `.wundergraph/operations` directory. They can be written in Graphql or TypeScript.
Let's check out the Dragons operation, open `.wundergraph/operations/Dragons.graphql`.

```graphql
query Dragons {
  spacex_dragons {
    name
    active
  }
}
```

This simply fetches the name and active status of all the SpaceX dragons, we can run this operation in Vite by using the SWR hooks.

## Calling the operation in Vite

Open `pages/index.tsx`, there you will find the following code:

```tsx
const dragons = useQuery({
  operationName: 'Dragons',
});
```

The operation name is the name of the file in the operations directory, without the extension. The `useQuery` hook will return the result of the operation.

```tsx
const { data, error, isLoading, isValidating } = dragons;
```

Let's modify the Dragons operation and add a limit parameter and return extra fields.
Open `.wundergraph/operations/Dragons.graphql` and change it to:

```graphql
query Dragons($limit: Int!) {
  spacex_dragons(limit: $limit) {
    id
    name
    active
  }
}
```

The WunderGraph server will automatically pick up on the changes and re-generate the types.
Go back to `pages/index.tsx` and you will see that the `Dragons` operation now has a required `limit` input parameter.

```tsx
const dragons = useQuery({
  operationName: 'Dragons',
  input: {
    limit: 1,
  },
});
```

Refresh the page in your browser, the result will look like this:

```json
{
  "data": { "spacex_dragons": [{ "id": "dragon1", "name": "Dragon 1", "active": true }] },
  "isValidating": false,
  "isLoading": false
}
```

## TypeScript Operations

WunderGraph allows you to write your operation using TypeScript. TypeScript Operations are a great way to use WunderGraph as a fully featured backend framework. Let's find out how to write a TypeScript operation.

Open `.wundergraph/operations/users/get.ts`

```ts
import { createOperation, z } from '../../generated/wundergraph.factory';

export default createOperation.query({
  input: z.object({
    id: z.string(),
  }),
  handler: async ({ input }) => {
    return {
      id: input.id,
      name: 'Jens',
      bio: 'Founder of WunderGraph',
    };
  },
});
```

This operation will return a user with the given id. We simply return a plain object here, but you can also return a database model or any other data type. We're using Zod to create the input schema, this will make sure that the input is validated before it reaches the handler.

Open `src/components/users/User.tsx`

```tsx
const { data } = useQuery({
  operationName: 'users/get',
  input: {
    id: '1',
  },
});
```

You can call TypeScript operations just like Graphql operations, fully type safe. Note that the operation name is `users/get`, this is the path to the operation file, without the extension. We use filebased routing for operations, this allows you to keep your operations organized.

## What's next?

Wunderbar! You've added your first Graphql API to Vite. Next up you might want to add a database, authentication and support uploads to turn Vite into a full stack powerhouse 😎.

- [Databases](/docs/databases)
- [Authentication](/docs/auth)
- [File Storage](/docs/storage)

### Guides

Learn more advanced topics in our [guides](/docs/guides) and get comfortable with WunderGraph.

### More Examples

Have a look at [other examples](/docs/examples) we provide, to get a better understanding of WunderGraph.

### Want to know more about WunderGraph?

If you're not yet sure what kind of problems WunderGraph can solve for you,
check out [the different use cases](/docs/use-cases) we support,
and the different [features](/docs/features) we provide.
You might also be interested to learn more about the [architecture](/docs/architecture) of WunderGraph.
If you haven't read our [Manifesto](/manifesto) yet, it's a great way to better understand what we're working on and why.

If you've got questions, please [join our Discord community](https://wundergraph.com/discord) or [contact us](https://wundergraph.com/contact/sales).
