docs-website/src/pages/docs/guides/index.md, before:

---
title: Guides
pageTitle: WunderGraph - Guides
description:
---

## [Enable autocompletion in your IDE](/docs/guides/enable-autocompletion-in-your-ide)

Follow this guide to enable autocompletion in your IDE.
This helps a lot when defining your (GraphQL) Operations.

## [Inject short-lived token into upstream requests](/docs/guides/inject-short-lived-token-into-upstream-requests)

This guide helps you to add a middleware to inject short-lived auth tokens into origin requests.

## [Expose a GraphQL API from WunderGraph](/docs/guides/expose-a-graphql-api-from-wundergraph)

A fundamental feature of WunderGraph is to secure your GraphQL API by putting a RPC interface in front of it.
But sometimes, you really want to directly expose your GraphQL API instead.
In this case, you can follow this guide.

## [Extend JSON fields with more specific types](/docs/guides/extend-json-fields-with-more-specific-types)

Some databases expose APIs with generic JSON fields.
This guide helps you to extend these fields with more specific types to increase type-safety.

## [Signing origin requests](/docs/guides/signing-origin-requests)

Similarly to injecting a short-lived token,
this guide helps you to sign requests,
which is a requirement for some APIs.

## [Configure Authorization](/docs/guides/configure-authorization)

Commit message:

chore(docs-website): update overviews

docs-website/src/pages/docs/guides/index.md, after:

---
title: Guides
pageTitle: WunderGraph - Guides
description:
---

Here's an overview of all the available guides.

{% quick-links %}

{% quick-link title="Enable autocompletion in your IDE" icon="core" href="/docs/guides/enable-autocompletion-in-your-ide" description="Follow this guide to enable autocompletion in your IDE. This helps a lot when defining your (GraphQL) Operations." /%}

{% quick-link title="Inject short-lived token into upstream requests" icon="core" href="/docs/guides/inject-short-lived-token-into-upstream-requests" description="This guide helps you to add a middleware to inject short-lived auth tokens into origin requests." /%}

{% quick-link title="Expose a GraphQL API from WunderGraph" icon="core" href="/docs/guides/expose-a-graphql-api-from-wundergraph" description="A fundamental feature of WunderGraph is to secure your GraphQL API by putting a RPC interface in front of it. But sometimes, you really want to directly expose your GraphQL API instead. In this case, you can follow this guide." /%}

{% quick-link title="Extend JSON fields with more specific types" icon="core" href="/docs/guides/extend-json-fields-with-more-specific-types" description="Some databases expose APIs with generic JSON fields. This guide helps you to extend these fields with more specific types to increase type-safety." /%}

{% quick-link title="Signing origin requests" icon="core" href="/docs/guides/signing-origin-requests" description="Similarly to injecting a short-lived token, this guide helps you to sign requests, which is a requirement for some APIs." /%}

{% quick-link title="Configure Authorization" icon="core" href="/docs/guides/configure-authorization" description="This Guide helps you to configure Authorization with RBAC." /%}

{% /quick-links %}
