docs-website/src/pages/docs/wundergraph-server-ts-reference/mutating-pre-resolve-hook.md, before:

---
title: Mutating Pre Resolve Hook
pageTitle: WunderGraph - Mutating Pre Resolve Hook
description:
---

The `mutatingPreResolve` hook is called before the Operation gets resolved.
You're able to modify the input before it gets passed to the resolvers.

Similar to all other hooks,
the `customResolve` hook is called with the following parameters:

- `user`: The user object when the user is authenticated
- `clientRequest`: The original client request object, including Headers
- `log`: The logger object
- `internalClient`: The internal client object
- `response`: The response object (only for postResolve hooks)
- `input`: The input object (only for Operation hooks)

With the `internalClient`,
you're able to securely call into all defined Operations,
e.g. to talk to a database or another service to enrich a response or manipulate the inputs of an Operation.

```typescript
// wundergraph.server.ts
export default configureWunderGraphServer<HooksConfig, InternalClient>(() => ({
  hooks: {
    queries: {
      Dragons: {
        mutatingPreResolve: async ({
          user,
          clientRequest,
          log,
          input,
          internalClient,
        }) => {
          return input
        },
      },
    },
  },
}))
```

Commit message:

feat: subscriptions, operation hooks (#260)
* feat: subscriptions, operation hooks

* feat: subscriptions, operation hooks

* chore: subscriptions, update hooks documentation

* feat: subscriptions, pass data source id to ws connection init hook

* chore: subscriptions, pr remarks

Co-authored-by: Jens Neuse <jens.neuse@gmx.de>

docs-website/src/pages/docs/wundergraph-server-ts-reference/mutating-pre-resolve-hook.md, after:

---
title: Mutating Pre Resolve Hook
pageTitle: WunderGraph - Mutating Pre Resolve Hook
description:
---

The `mutatingPreResolve` hook is called before the Operation gets resolved.
You're able to modify the input before it gets passed to the resolvers.
Supported operations are `queries`, `mutations` and `subscriptions`.

Similar to all other hooks,
the `mutatingPreResolve` hook is called with the following parameters:

- `user`: The user object when the user is authenticated
- `clientRequest`: The original client request object, including Headers
- `log`: The logger object
- `internalClient`: The internal client object
- `input`: The input object (only for Operation hooks)

With the `internalClient`,
you're able to securely call into all defined Operations,
e.g. to talk to a database or another service to enrich a response or manipulate the inputs of an Operation.

```typescript
// wundergraph.server.ts
export default configureWunderGraphServer<HooksConfig, InternalClient>(() => ({
  hooks: {
    queries: {
      Dragons: {
        mutatingPreResolve: async ({
          user,
          clientRequest,
          log,
          input,
          internalClient,
        }) => {
          return input
        },
      },
    },
  },
}))
```
